---
layout: article
title: The Day Before the World Ended
date: 2024-10-5 11:02:00-0400
---

The day before the world ended, <br>
the sky was a pale, faux pink. <br>
I drove to the neighborhood gas station <br>
and bought a blueberry muffin.<br>
Then, on second thought, <br>
a pack of cigarettes and a lottery ticket.<br>

That day, the fork latch on the back gate squeaked shrilly as I jerked it open, <br>
the corroded metal scraping against my palm. <br>
As I walked along the path in the forest, <br>
I saw fields of mayapples, <br>
remembering how, <br>
a lifetime ago, <br>
I had presented a bundle of their vivid green umbrellas to show Mom. <br>

The day before the world ended, <br>
I did my laundry, <br>
barely noticing the slight dampness left by the faulty dryer, <br>
the red stain in my favorite hoodie which had always bothered me, <br>
and the stranded pair of socks which I reluctantly paired together. <br>

This room didn’t feel like mine anymore.<br>
I carefully took down the posters and maps and birthday cards that hung on the wall,<br>
placing them hastily into last year’s moving boxes. <br>
A couple I glanced at, <br>
but most I was eager to let go of.<br>
The fluffy rug running alongside my bed comforted my bare feet,<br>
and I brought myself to return the favor, <br>
admiring how well the texture had been preserved after all these years. <br>

With three hours left,<br>
I walked out of the house with my phone and keys, <br>
sparing a glance at the stars.<br>
Their mocking winks reminded me of their existence above fate.<br>
Locking the door behind me, <br>
an old habit which I used to take strange pride in,<br>
I got in the car.<br>

I thought about how I could almost convince myself that it was winter, <br>
with the tall, bare trees <br>
that could’ve been so beautifully illuminated by the ghostly streetlamp, <br>
in the suffocating silence. <br>
Just last week, <br>
I had admired the reds, oranges, and yellows that had plastered the sidewalks, <br>
and the familiar rustling of the leaves in the wind.<br>

Passing by the pond just down the road, <br>
I rolled down the window, <br>
not bothering to stop the car. <br>
I heard the faint splash of the keys<br>
and felt a breeze that made my eyes sting. <br>

I’d scarcely driven to the airport before, <br>
and nearly missed the exit.<br>
It was a first class flight I had booked.<br>
Even knowing full well I couldn’t afford it,<br>
the purchase was fully inconsequential.<br>

And as the plane left the tarmac of IND, <br>
I watched through the oval window as the sky went dark.<br>