---
layout: article
title:  "Line Without a Hook"
date:   2024-11-16 8:06:00-0400
published: false
---

Do you know the feeling when you find an artist, or hear a song, and it just feels different? Like after the first run through, you're filled with a sort of tension and anticipation, like you're standing on the cusp of something lifechanging, and you think "I need to know the title of this song." 

For me, that song is Line Without A Hook, by Ricky Montgomery. And I say is, because still, every time I hear it, I'm filled with emotion and gratitude and love. Something about Ricky's music instills a feeling so vitalizing and unique and raw within me, and I can't help but fall in love with his songs a little more. 

Here is my interpretation of Line Without A Hook, from Ricky's perspective toward his lover. 

## Line Without A Hook, by Ricky Montgomery

<b>
I don't really give a damn about the way you touch me when we're alone, <br>
You can hold my hand if no one's home.
</b>

You are so beautiful and precious, but I have to keep you a little away from my heart, because I fear that if I will go up in flames if I love you too much. I fear that your presence is the only thing keeping me afloat, and I worry that you don't feel the same. 

<b>
Do you like it when I'm away?
</b>

Am I a burden to you? Does my presence take away from your existence; do you stay up worrying about me at night? I sometimes think that you are happier when we are apart. 

<b>
If I went and hurt my body, baby, would you love me the same?
</b>

If I hurt myself, if I told you about the things that weigh me down, would you love me still? If I showed you how broken I am, would you shun me for the pieces of me that have rotted away, the voices in my head and the emptiness above it all? 

<b>
I can feel all my bones coming back, and I'm craving motion...
It's a curse, and it's growing
</b>
The warmth is returning to my limbs, and I long for you again, even though my conscience says I shouldn't. I wish for things to go back to how they were. 