---
layout: post
title: a quote
date: 2024-05-25 4:05:00-0400
description: 
tags: 
categories: 
related_posts: false
---

My favorite book, A Little Life, has a quote: “He experienced the singular pleasure of watching people he loved fall in love with other people he loved.”

I think it’s important to first understand a little bit of context behind “he”, which refers to Jude, the main character. (without spoiling anything, of course!)

From the quote, you can probably tell that Jude cares very deeply for his friends. He loves them with his whole being, and they mean more to him than he could ever express. Every day, he wonders how he became so lucky. Yet, for all this love he feels for the people around him, it would be impossible for him to treat himself with the same respect. Jude feels, and thinks, and notices so much, yet fails to acknowledge that he too, is deserving of these same overwhelming magnitudes of love and of care. 

Taken out of context, this sentence demonstrates, beautifully, how one can be so fully content with watching others fall in love. But knowing Jude, everything about this passage confirms Jude’s nature.

The sentence is very external. Jude is a bystander, one who observes but cannot indulge. The “singular pleasure” describes the massive room in his heart for others and the pleasure he derives in watching others’ happiness, ignoring his own. This description of the love enjoyed by others omits Jude’s own, turbulent relationship with love, with falling in love, and with those who he loves. 

